madness yen but I have a friend of mine
who subscribed to my YouTube channel
after I had a discussion with vegan
gains and oh my god this girl if if
there was a day if there was a word
passionate and you looked up the
definition its her so I follow her on
Instagram her name is Maria by the way
so she'll probably watch this discussion
if she's watching this she'll know I'm
talking about her she's from Sweden and
in Sweden they fight for a lot of
different social causes so apparently
there's like a huge presence of Nazis I
was not aware of that until she brought
it to my attention
so she fights against Nazism she fights
against a you know animal products
industry all that all that fun stuff
and one thing I noticed every single day
I kid you not she's out and about on the
streets at an animal farm at a at the at
the factory farms she's out there and
she's spreading the message and she's
shown me videos she's shown me pictures
where the police have gotten involved
and had to be escorted she tells me how
they tipped down deer hunting stands
where they hunt deer she hates hunters
and it's crazy like the one thing that
she's super adamant about are these
stickers that she makes so the way she
travels to show you she'll use public
transportation she'll take these
stickers everywhere she goes like a
stack a good stack of like a hundred two
hundred stickers start pasting them
everywhere go vegan go vegan go vegan
she's basically like leaving her
footprint you know and it's not just her
like it's obviously it's a group and
whatnot okay well look so I know you
don't ask me a question I'm gonna I'm
gonna respond as if this question um
what ended the Vietnam War so this may
seem like it's totally unrelated but
it's not for me this really is the
answer now there were a lot of specific
incidents during the Vietnam War that
excited similar passions and it's
understandable to my knowledge only one
man was ever actually fully prosecuted
in a military court for misconduct in
Vietnam one excuse or another was always
found to derail delay or cancel
basically trials for war crimes crimes
against humanity missed misconduct by US
soldiers in Vietnam but that case was of
soldier having improper conduct with an
underage girl in an interrogation room
he was raping a female child and I think
everybody who knew anything about that
case knew this was not the only incident
with this guy there was a lot of rape in
in Vietnam US soldiers did rape a lot of
women there was torture and some of the
guys who committed the torture showed up
at the house of Congress what are called
the winter soldier hearings and
complained so the guy is tearing up it's
not even like speculative they
themselves had done this torture and
they wanted to give depositions to
Congress and say hey this is kind of
over the line what we're doing so that
stuff you know makes people passionate
you know to some extent you wonder why
why are people why are people so
resigned to crimes against humanity
being committed by US soldiers however
would would it solve the problem so what
what is the problem okay first of all
the problem here we're addressing is
specifically accountability and
discipline in the US Armed Forces that
is the problem we're not talking about
the broader question of whether or not
you should invade Vietnam in the first
place the point is given that you have
an army in Vietnam that you're raping
and torturing people
okay so standards of Human Rights
decency and then accountability when
those standards are violated
disappointed said that's a shame oh
nobody could possibly believe nobody's
even going to debate with me is the way
to improve those standards in the US
military by doing what your friend
Murray is doing it can't it can't
possibly be now what is the way to do it
okay then we can make a flowchart say
okay how are we gonna actually address
the question of raising standards of
conduct and accountability for US Armed
Forces abroad I think that's a debate
worth having and that would be a
political movement worth leading and
devoting years of your life to and
people donating millions of dollars to
ultimately all these things have a price
tag but I sympathize with someone who
just wants to frankly go crazy and there
were there were people in the 1960s and
I think probably still say no just put
up stickers saying the US Army raped
this person the US Army tortured this
person this is unacceptable these are
across these crimes against humanity but
as soon as we take a step beyond that
we ask you Sturgess start thinking about
outcomes and impacts and we start
thinking about how many hours and years
of our life were putting into it we have
to come to a to a better methodology so
that that is my answer to the question
and there's a there's a kind of
necessary irony here because again
direct action everywhere they were
founded on the promise that they were
learning the lessons of history and
already with this one example you see
that it's impossible to just point to
the lessons of history that's one lesson
I take from the history of the Vino more
you know and you know it's been a part
of my life in various ways other people
can read the same history and not take
that lesson at all and so on and so
forth but yeah that's you know that
that's that's my answer really agree
with you on that like there's I don't
think where we're gonna have to argue on
that point of view it's just um some
people they do they do so much but they
don't realize that the magnitude that
they're doing it at is very small if not
minimal so okay so sorry I've won with
okay great that's a good one but look
okay so my comparison there was to
ultimately do a question of discipline
you're asking the army to to be
disciplined or to have self this fun and
and and in some ways I think that is
like the culture of meat-eating where
you're looking for most of us you're
looking at your own mother or your own
father and saying why can't you have
some accountability why can't you have
some self this is one so I don't think
it's totally irrelevant to speak in
those kinds of loaded ethical terms of
personal responsibility and
accountability and then there's a larger
cultural
skill to it also there's the culture of
the military sure um look I I am an
atheist I see a lot wrong with Islam how
really are you gonna change a Muslim
majority country culturally how are we
gonna change Saudi Arabia or Indonesia
or Malaysia it's not it's not gonna be
through Maria's tactics again I'm not
picking on Maria but if you asked her
what if you were living in a country
where 99% of the population is Muslim
like Indonesia is this what you do would
you go around putting up stickers saying
circumcision destroys 50% of the nerve
endings in your penis circumcision is
child abuse there
a good example sticker that says
circumcision is child abuse of course on
a scientific factual level I agree with
this statement circumcision is terrible
however on a political level and even on
an artistic level artistically this is
an artistic and creative challenge how
are we going to change the culture and
this is why I'm using this is much
different from the military question I
don't think there's so much of an artist
a question and creative talent you know
that that's more of a purely political
question it's not gonna be these tactics
and on the contrary you know you may get
killed I'm using her tactics in Saudi
Arabia or Indonesia
I'm not even necessarily about the
government just local you know sincerely
religious people may take the svenska
and again to be fair Orthodox Jews in
Israel may kill you if you you know piss
off you know Orthodox and Hasidic Jews
so em you know there are ever so often
religious conflicts of that even within
Judaism so that is the magnitude of the
of the challenge we're up against so
again I sympathize with people who are
perhaps overcome with passion and want
to do these things but I do think we can
say it's strategically tactically and
even artistically or aesthetically kind
of kind of wrong I I think it's a I
think it's a 300 year thing I do I miss
be honest I think veganism is the 300
year struggle and if you look at I mean
I think it is fair to say what is the
future of Saudi Arabia for 300 years I
think that is I think that is yeah sure
I think that is the time to timeline um
you know which for me is not an excuse
for for indifference but you know
cultural and human rights progress mmm
even China it's incredibly depressing
what's really possible in the next 50
years in communist China you know you
you you worry so yeah I mean I do I do I
do see these things as very deep very
long-term struggles now okay quick
devil's advocate what's the best thing
about Maria's approach to one she she's
gonna meet other people who also care
about it want to make a difference that
is very positive I said all the time one
of the main reasons I came in the
internet was to make friends meet
colleagues get organized save the world
you can't do it alone so she's probably
gonna be less isolated because she's
doing this form of activist
than she otherwise would be um and point
two there is an educational and learning
process involved now okay if some people
are so stupid they're not going to learn
from anything I remember I got a story
eat so you know I used to humanitarian
work and I got a story from someone else
doing humanitarian work we were in
Southeast Asia but this woman that
previous had been in in Africa in an
area in Africa where there was a civil
war going on and she met a white tourist
who signed up to fight in a with the
communist rebels in this orbit Africa as
tourists you know and I asked her I said
so at what point did he stop and
reconsider the ethics of the morality of
what she was doing so you know what it
was one day the guy standing right next
to him got shot in the head that's in
his case that's what it took was
standing next to someone who gets shot
sorry to laugh dies but I mean it's
assumed she didn t assume he would have
you know cradled this guy as he was
dying and stuff I sue me I don't think
he just ran away I assume he you know
tried to help this guy or something - I
don't know but and then he started to
ask himself two tough questions so even
if it is shall we say negative learning
learning from seeing things go wrong
it's probably true that she's gonna look
around again even someone most people
have spoken to who were involved with
direct action everywhere they got
involved they saw what the organization
was doing wrong and then they said ooh
this is really messed up you know
financially organizationally ethically
and running onto a baseball field for
thirty seconds and then go spend a week
in prison you know because it's not that
serious of charge don't get me wrong but
still you know the legal stuff is a big
deal it is not effective this is not
worth it so Pete there is a learning
process that goes on also so that I
would say those are the two two most
positive things about about Maria's
approach yeah
[Music]
evolution